---
layout: post
title: Computational Physics
subtitle: Spring 2022
root: {{site.baseurl}}
---

## SYLLABUS

# Computational Physics (314)

T/R 3:30-4:45pm  
Instructor:  Dr. Dylan McNamara  
Office: DL 211  
Office Phone:  (910) 962-2588  
Email:  mcnamarad@uncw.edu  
Office Hours: T/R – 2-3pm.  

# TEXTBOOK and OTHER SUPPLIES

Introduction to the Modeling and Analysis of Complex Systems by Sayama.  [Link][Book]

Chaos: Making a New Science.  [Link][Book2]

# CLASS ATTENDANCE

Attendance is required to do well in this course.  

# GRADING

Computational Modeling Projects     =  70 pts   

Final Project                       =  20 pts

Participation                       =  10 pts

TOTAL POINTS AVAILABLE              =  100 pts

Grades will be given as follows:  
                  90%-100%                              A  
                  80%-89%                               B  
                  70%-79%                               C  
                  60%-69%                               D  
                  Below 60%                             F  


# COURSE OBJECTIVE

Upon completing this course, students will have developed the ability to apply numerical modeling tools to a wide range of problems in physics and the broader field of nonlinear systems.


# TOPIC SCHEDULE

| [Introduction to Nonlinearity][Intro] |
| [Maps/Discrete Time Models] [Maps] |
| [ODEs/Continuous Time] [ODEs] |
| [Bifurcations] [Bifs] |
| [Chaos] [Chaos]|
| [Cellular Automata] [CA]|
| [Criticality] [Criticality]|
| [PDEs/Fields] [PDE_Fields] |
| Networks |

# CHAOS READING SCHEDULE

| 2/1 Chapter 1 |
| 2/8 Chapter 2 |
| 2/15 Chapter 3 |
| 2/22 Chapter 4 |
| 3/1 Chapter 5 |
| 3/15 Chapter 6 |
| 3/22 Chapter 7 |
| 3/29 Chapter 8 |
| 4/5 Chapter 9 |
| 4/12 Chapter 10 |
| 4/19 Chapter 11 |

[Book]: http://textbooks.opensuny.org/introduction-to-the-modeling-and-analysis-of-complex-systems/
[Book2]: https://www.amazon.com/Chaos-Making-Science-James-Gleick/dp/0143113453
[Intro]: {{ site.url }}assets/Intro.pdf
[Maps]: {{ site.url }}assets/Maps_DiscreteTime.pdf
[ODEs]: {{ site.url }}assets/ODEs_ContinuousTime.pdf
[Bifs]: {{ site.url }}assets/Bifurcations.pdf
[Chaos]: {{ site.url }}assets/Chaos.pdf
[CA]: {{ site.url }}assets/CA.pdf
[Criticality]: {{ site.url }}assets/Criticality.pdf
[PDE_Fields]: {{ site.url }}assets/PDEs_Fields.pdf

# COVID INFO
If you feel sick please do not come to class.  Email Dr. McNamara at the first sign of symptoms.  If you miss class due to testing positive for Covid, Dr. McNamara will provide you with the class notes and any necessary tutelage to help familiarize you with the missed material. The computational modeling assignments will be due on the day indicated and you will be expected to turn your work in on that day.  If your Covid sickness prevents you from meeting such a deadline, alert Dr. McNamara and we can discuss alternative due dates.
